# "A World Without Books"
"Octave Uzanne's account of a gathering of scientific men paints a compelling, paperless, image of the future. Uzanne first describes what the other learned men expect from their respective mediums. An esoteric bemoans the death of landscape painters due to the rising popularity of photography, the naturalist believes that hunger will be erased due to nutrient packed pills. Uzanne, a literary man, lengthily explains (with much confidence) his theory on the future. First of all, the phonograph shall reign supreme for the consumption of literature. Uzanne postulates that people will _hear_ books instead of reading. Uzanne goes into detail surrounding the variety of ways authors shall utilize narration as their medium, and how the general public will consume it. At first, the idea of people listening, and only listening, to literature struck me as absurd. However, then I realized that despite Uzannes flamboyant, blatantly patriarchal tone, he has a point. While hearing literature has not swept the world to the degree he promised, screens have dominated the role he subscribed to the phonograph. In everyday life, especially on college campuses or public transportation, most people walk around with earbuds in. While the act of reading off a screen may be similar, Hayles article points out that their are differences between paper reading and electronic reading. the fact that screen-reading makes us potentially lazier readers is a fact that must be reconciled if we are to remain "properly" literary", as a society. 
