layout:     post
title:      No Digital Day
date:       2018-10-7 
summary:    Unplugged for a day  
categories: jekyll
thumbnail: cogs
tags:
 - Blog
 
 # "No Digital Day"
 "Casey Leffers 
10/3/18
						
No Digital Day
My first smartphone sat under the family christmas tree in 2013. I was ecstatic to unwrap it, leaving behind my chunky, horrendously colored (but incredibly robust) Nokia. Suddenly the world was in the palm of my hand. Since then, the times I have been away from my digital device have been few and far between. The concept of doing a No Digital Day was daunting, but exciting. In preparation for my digital day, I made sure to copy down my schedule and homework. My No Digital Day began on September 26th. I woke up and reflexively reached for my phone, which I had left charging by the windowsill. I caught myself and reached for my watch instead to check the time. Lucky for me, I usually wake up naturally in time for class. I from there I laid in bed, unsure what to do without my daily ritual of spending five minutes browsing through my feeds as I stirred to consciousness. Instead I stared at the ceiling until I willed myself into the shower. Normally I set a timer on my phone in order to to combat my nasty habit of staying in too long. Instead I ended up with a roommate begging me to hurry up. Already I was noticing the serious difference in my morning, I constantly checked my watch (which is analog), realizing that I did the same thing with my phone throughout the morning. Continuing my morning routine, I started to shave. In keeping with the spirit of the day, I opted for a normal razor, instead of an electric one. Within minutes, a bubble of blood had formed above my adams-apple, reinforcing my inability to not slice myself when in a rush and using a metal razor. As I went to get dressed, I first opened the window and stuck out my hand, not being able to see if it would change later on. I scrutinized the people walking on street below, deciding I should bring a sweatshirt just in case. My day gradually took on a more normal shape. I buckled my watch to my wrist and set out to head to Rebecca’s for breakfast. As I walked out the double doors I patted my pockets, looking for my headphones. Normally I plug in and blast music during my 9:45 jaunt towards Curry. The walk would have felt far more normal if everyone else was also on a no digital day. However, as I joined the loose, winding line of students making their way across the footbridge, I noticed only the sounds of footsteps and birds chirping. In the morning it seemed, no one spoke. It was quiet enough to be eery, considering I was surrounded by at least a dozen people. In Rebecca’s, the day once again took on more normalcy. I waited in line, greeted friends, and poured myself a cup of coffee. I hadn’t even considered that using my meal swipe was digital but figured I could make an exception to the No Digital Day rules on the grounds of sustenance. From their, I once again experienced the yawning absence of my phone. I was eating alone and was instantly bored. Without my tiny glowing screen I had no news to read, no texts or groupmes to respond to. I pulled out my journal and began to write about what I had thought so far that day. I also realized that I needed a refresher on analog clocks, considering I almost never need to use one.
In class, which happened to be Reading and Writing in the Digital Age, I was the only student without a laptop. I had to rely on the notes I took the night before in order to talk about the readings. However, I didn’t find it that difficult, and enjoyed not having to deal with my computer in front of me. After class however, the most nerve-wracking part of the day took shape. I had agreed to get tea with a friend, but had no way to confirm if they could still show up. We agreed to meet at centennial at four, which I put in my planner to make sure I couldn’t forget. Oddly, I felt like I was flying blind. My friend, Sam, was exactly where she said she would be. It occurred to me that with cellular technology, more aspects of life become assured. There was no way to tell her if I was going to be late, or if I could come at all. I imagined the trust that was needed to meet-up with people before of era of rapid communication. We sat in centennial and talked, and interestingly enough, Sam had just had a class on addiction.
She told me that addicts feel the greatest craving when they are in the same places and situations where they took drugs. I couldn’t help drawing a connection to going cold turkey on media that day. I don't see myself as a media addict. I don’t watch much tv and always enjoy a good book. I love to disconnect while camping and I’ve gone backpacking, once for an entire month on end, without anything resembling an iPhone. I came to the conclusion that my phone is, for better or worse, a pillar (or crutch) of my academic experience. I don’t miss my phone when camping because I’ve never been camping with my phone. I check my class schedule, time and blackboard notifications, all with the device that I perpetually have in my back pocket. My thirst for my phone is based off of the environment and context I find myself in. My phone, along with my laptop, is as thoroughly ingrained into my academic life as the chairs and tables of a classroom.
In addition to my use of my phone as a tool for organizing my day and entertaining myself, it is also a way to ignore things. I came to this conclusion as I went to the gym without headphones. Normally, I blast music, ensuring that I stay focused and motivated while working out. Without my buds in my ears, I had to listen to the pop-heavy squash busters soundtrack, and was not nearly loud enough to drown out the grunts of everyone around me, which I decided was the real reason people wore headphones at the gym. By the end of the day, I came to a few conclusions. The first is that screens are, on a college campus, impossible to avoid. The second is a little more profound. In the psuedo-absence of technology, specifically my smartphone, I realized that I filter the entirety of my day through it. It is my timekeeper, reminder, and willful distraction. I use it to look up things for class and to satisfy my own curiosity. Ultimately, I have built much of my life around having my phone and laptop as the ultimate arbiters of my social and academic life. I often like to spend time in the mountains away from cell service, where I can detach the digital hooks. However, I’m beginning to feel that this is not enough on its own. I may have to create deeper changes in my daily life to put more distance between my devices and my daily life. This is a pressing need, not only for my personal health and well-being, but for society as a whole to define what contexts digital technology is necessary in. For digital devices, their use in everyday life is growing. I may be able to leave my phone at home, but what about when devices make the leap from the palm of my hand to my ear canal or cornea? Habit makes up the ruts of our mental pathways. We increasingly rely on our devices to get us through our day, week, month. Their prevalence is only growing. As the spaces for devices expand into our own bodies, I wonder what it will mean to unplug. More importantly, I wonder in what contexts we will be able to, and if it will become increasingly more rare."
